<blockquote>The lines of mice used in this NCI-sponsored project consist of 18 groups of isogenic F1 progeny made by crossing females from each of 18 AKXD recombinant inbred strains (AKXD2, 3, 7, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 16, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27, and 28) to male FVB/N mice that carry a transgene that consistently leads to the development of mammary tumors in females (e.g. Le Voyer et al., <a href="http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?
cmd=Retrieve&amp;db=pubmed&amp;dopt=Abstract&amp;list_uids=11414753" target="_blank">2001</a>). The formal nomenclature of the male transgenic line is FVB/N-TgN(MMTV-PyMT)<sup>634Mul</sup>. The genomes of each AKXD x FVB F1 consist of one set of FVB chromosomes (including the transgene) and one set of chromosomes inherited from one of the 18 AKXD RI strain mothers. Only the AKXD chromosomes are &quot;recombinant&quot; across this panel of F1 progeny, and the set therefore has a genetic architecture similar to backcross progeny. It is possible to map modifiers that influence tumor characteristics and expression patterns. It is also possible to study covariance of transcript expression levels in tumor tissue. For further background on this special mapping design please see Hunter and Williams (<a href="http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&amp;db=pubmed&amp;dopt=Abstract&amp;list_uids=11917159" target="_blank">2002</a>).</blockquote>

<blockquote>The ancestral strains from which all AKXD strains are derived are AKR/J (AKR) and DBA/2J (D2 or D). DBA/2J has been partially sequenced (approximately 1.5x coverage by D by Celera Genomics). Significant genomic sequence data for AKR is not currently available. Chromosomes of the two parental strains have recombined in the different AKXD strains. All of these strains are available from The Jackson Laboratory as cryopreserved stocks. For additional background on recombinant inbred strains, please see <a href="http://www.nervenet.org/papers/bxn.html" target="_blank">http://www.nervenet.org/papers/bxn.html</a>.</blockquote>
