# Leadership meeting Dec 14, 2023

Attendees: Amelie, Danny, Rupert, Shelby, Pjotr, Rob, Saunak, Enza, Karl

The leadership team met up for the first time online.
After introductions we agreed to have a public facing page listing the team members on the GeneNetwork website.

Next we listed things that ought to be worked on with priority:

1. REST API (Danny, Rupert, Saunak, Karl) and data uploader (Rupert, Shaunak)
1. Improve UI (Amelie, Danny, Rob, Shelby, Karl)
1. Robustness of GN (Amelie, Pjotr, Rob)
1. Human dataset support (Enza, Pjotr, Rob)

Furthermore it was mentioned that uploading genotypes is of interest (Saunak) and we would like more metrics on how GN is actually used (Amelie, Rob) to set community priorities.
We can also provide multiple front ends (Karl), e.g. for citizen scientists.
