<blockquote>We have exploited a set of BXD recombinant inbred strains. The parental strains from which all BXD lines are derived are C57BL/6J (B6 or B) and DBA/2J (D2 or D). Both B and D strains have been almost fully sequence (8x coverage for B6 by a public consortium and approximately 1.5x coverage for D by <a class="fs14" href="http://www.celeradiscoverysystem.com/index.cfm" target="_blank">Celera Discovery Systems</a>). Chromosomes of the two parental strains have been recombined and fixed randomly in the many different BXD strains. BXD2 through BXD32 were produced by Benjamin A. Taylor starting in the late 1970s. BXD33 through 42 were also produced by Taylor, but they were generated in the 1990s. These strains are all available from The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine.
<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>In this mRNA expression data set we generally used progeny of stock obtained from The Jackson Laboratory between 1999 and 2001. Animals were generated in-house at the University of Alabama by John Mountz and Hui-Chen Hsu and at the University of Tennessee Health Science Center by Lu Lu and Robert Williams.</p>
</blockquote>

<blockquote>The set of mouse strains used for mapping (a mapping panel) consists of groups of genetically unique BXD recombinant inbred strains. The ancestral strains from which all BXD lines are derived are C57BL/6J (B6 or B) and DBA/2J (D2 or D). Both B and D strains have been almost fully sequence (8x coverage for B6, and 1.5x coverage for D by Celera Genomics). Chromosomes of the two parental strains are recombined randomly in the many different BXD strains. BXD lines 2 through 32 were produced by Dr. Benjamin Taylor starting in the late 1970s. BXD33 through 42 were also produced by Dr. Taylor, but they were generated in the 1990s. All of these strains are available from <a class="fs14" href="http://www.jax.org" target="_blank">The Jackson Laboratory</a>. Lines such as BXD67, BXD68, etc. are BXD Advanced recombinant inbred strains that are part of a large set now being produced by Drs. Lu Lu, Guomin Zhou, Lee Silver, Jeremy Peirce, and Robert Williams. There will eventually be 45 of these BXD strains. For additional background on recombinant inbred strains, please see <a class="fs14" href="http://www.nervenet.org/papers/bxn.html">http://www.nervenet.org/papers/bxn.html</a>.</blockquote>
