<p>Data were generated using the HXB/BXH recombinant inbred strains of rats generated over the past 20 years in Prague. The parental strains from which all HXB lines are derived are SHR (SHR/OlaIpcv, abbreviated SHR or HSR = H) and Brown Norway (BN-Lx/Cub= B). These strains have been used extensively to study cardiovascular system physiology and genetics.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>The HXB strains were bred by Michal Pravenec at the Institute of Physiology, Czech Academy of Sciences. The BXH strains were bred by Vladimir Kren (see Pravenec et al. 1989, 2004) at a similar animal facility at the Institute of Biology and Medical Genetics, 1st Medical Faculty, Charles University. These strains are at approximately the 6oth generation of continuous inbreeding (F60).</p>

<p>Animals used in the transcriptome analyses of multiple tissues (H&uuml;bner and colleagues, <a class="fs14" href="http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&amp;db=pubmed&amp;dopt=Abstract&amp;list_uids=15711544" target="_blank">2005</a>) were weaned at 4 weeks. Those born at the Charles University were transferred to the Institute of Physiology. Animals were reared on a commerical rat chow (ST-1 from VELAZ, Czech Republic). Four males were house per cage. Cages were made of polystyrene and have a floor size of 22 x 38 cm and height of 23 cm. The bedding was changed twice a week. Light cycle was 12:12 on-off. Vivarium rooms were maintained at 23 deg. C. Rats were sexually naive. All males used in the initial transcriptome studies (H&uuml;bner et al., 2005) were born between May and August 2002. They were sacrificed unfastged by rapid cervical dislocation between 9 and 10 AM, following an approved animal protocol (Ethics Committee of the Institute of Physiology, Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague; Animal Protectiion Law of the Czech Republic (311/1997).</p>
