<p>Whole brain tissue was sectioned at 10&nbsp;mm using a Leica cryostat and mounted in series with 6e8 sections per slide onto uncharged and uncoated glass slides. Mounted sections were dehydrated in 100% methanol (90 s), 70% ethanol (1 min), 95% ethanol (1 min), 100% ethanol (1 min&nbsp;&nbsp;2), xylene (5 min). Slides were then allowed to air dry for 10 min under a fume hood.</p>

<p>Series were created from distinct coronal sections (bregma po- sitions based on a C57BL/6J reference brain atlas) and individual&nbsp;regions were matched across section and harvested by LCM (Supplemental Fig. 2). Prelimbic (PrL) and infralimbic (ILC) cortex included a series spanning from bregma 1.98 to 1.54 mm. The accumbens core (NAc) and shell (NAs) series were collected from bregma 1.54 to 0.98 mm, and dorsolateral (DLS) and dorsomedial (DMS) striatum and bed nucleus stria terminalis (BST) were collected from bregma 0.38 to&nbsp;0.10 mm. Basolateral (BLA) and central nucleus (CeA) of the amygdala series were collected from bregma&nbsp;0.58 to&nbsp;1.22 mm and hippocampus (CA1 and CA3) was collected from bregma&nbsp;1.46 to&nbsp;2.46 mm. Finally, the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and primary visual cortex (VCX) series were collected from bregma&nbsp;3.28 to&nbsp;3.80 mm.</p>

<p>Arcturus XT (Life Technologies) was used to capture 13 brain areas. The infrared laser was then used to capture the tissue onto CapSure LCM caps (Life Technologies, laser spot power set to 70 mV with a duration of 25 msec).</p>
