<p>Brain samples were from 31 male and 25 females and between 28 right and 28 left hemispheres distributed with good balance across the two sexes. The tissue arrayed included the forebrain, midbrain, one olfactory bulb, the cerebellum; and the rostral part of the medulla. The medulla was trimmed transversely at the caudal aspect of the cerebellum. The sagittal cut was made from a dorsal to ventral direction. (Note that several of the other brain transcriptome databases do not include olfactory bulb or cerebellum.) Total RNA was isolated with TRIZOL Reagent (Life Technologies Inc.) using a modification of the single-step acid guanidinium isothiocyanate phenol-chloroform extraction method according to the manufacturer&rsquo;s protocol. The extracted RNA was then purified using RNeasy (Qiagen, Inc.). RNA samples were evaluated by UV spectroscopy for purity; only samples with an A260/280 ratio greater than 1.8 were used. RNA quality was monitored by visualization on an ethidium bromide-stained denaturing formaldehyde agarose gel. Samples containing at least 10 micrograms of total RNA were sent to the OHSU Gene Microarray Shared Resource facility for analysis. The procedures used at the facility precisely follow the manufacturer&rsquo;s specifications. Details can be found at <a class="normal" href="http://www.ohsu.edu/gmsr/amc" target="_blank">http://www.ohsu.edu/gmsr/amc</a>. Following labeling, all samples were hybridized to the GeneChip Test3 array for quality control. If target performance did not meet recommended thresholds, the sample would have been discarded. All labeled samples passed the threshold and were hybridized to the 430A array.</p>
