<p><a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6404261/" target="_blank">https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6404261/</a></p>

<p>The epigenetic landscape varies greatly among cell types. Although a variety of writers, readers, and erasers of epigenetic features are known, we have little information about the underlying regulatory systems controlling the establishment and maintenance of these features. Here, we have explored how natural genetic variation affects the epigenome in mice. Studying levels of H3K4me3, a histone modification at sites such as promoters, enhancers, and recombination hotspots, we found tissue-specific trans-regulation of H3K4me3 levels in four highly diverse cell types: male germ cells, embryonic stem cells, hepatocytes, and cardiomyocytes. To identify the genetic loci involved, we measured H3K4me3 levels in male germ cells in a mapping population of 59 BXD recombinant inbred lines. We found extensive trans-regulation of H3K4me3 peaks, including six major histone quantitative trait loci (QTL). These chromatin regulatory loci act dominantly to suppress H3K4me3, which at hotspots reduces the likelihood of subsequent DNA double-strand breaks. QTL locations do not correspond with genes encoding enzymes known to metabolize chromatin features. Instead their locations match clusters of zinc finger genes, making these possible candidates that explain the dominant suppression of H3K4me3. Collectively, these data describe an extensive, set of chromatin regulatory loci that control the epigenetic landscape.</p>
