<p>For this data set, a subset of the Hybrid Rat Diversity Panel (HRDP) was used that included 30 HXB/BXH recombinant inbred strains and 15 classic inbred strains for a total of 45 inbred strains. Male rats at the age of 90 days were used for this study. The animals from the 30 RI strains and the 2 progenitor strains of the HXB/BXH RI panel (SHR/OlaIpcv and BN-Lx/Cub) were bred and maintained at the Institute of Physiology of the Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague, Czech Republic. The 11 classic inbred strains were purchased from US Vendors (either Charles River or Envigo) and shipped to the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus where they were acclimated prior to sacrifice. The remaining 2 classic inbred strains are the progenitor strains of the LEXF/FXLE RI panel and were bred and maintained at the National BioResource Project for the Rat in Japan. In Colorado, rats were sacrificed by rapid CO2 exposure. In the Czech Republic, rats were sacrificed by cervical dislocation. All experiments involving the harvesting of whole brain of the HXB/BXH RI panel and two progenitor strains were performed in accordance with the Animal Protection Law of the Czech Republic and were approved by the Ethics Committee of the Institute of Physiology, Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague. All experiments involving the harvesting of whole brain of the 11 classic inbred strains maintained at the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus were approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus and were performed in accordance with the guidelines in the NIH Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. Animal experiments involving the F344/Stm and LE/Stm strains were conducted in accordance with the Fundamental Guidelines for Proper Conduct of Animal Experiment and Related Activities in Academic Research Institutions under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan, and were approved by the Committee on Animal Experimentation at Kyoto University, Japan.</p>
