<p><strong>FINAL RECOMMENDED EYE DATA SET</strong>. The HEIMED September 2008 RMA data release provides estimates of gene expression in whole eyes of 103 lines of young adult mice generated using 221 Affymetrix M430 2.0 arrays. This data set is intended for exploration of the genetics and genomics of the mouse eye, retina, lens, retinal pigment epithelium, cornea, iris and choroid. Data were generated at UTHSC with support from a grant from Dr. Barrett Haik, Director of the Hamilton Eye Institute (<a class="normalsize" href="http://www.eye.utmem.edu/cvr/hei.html" target="_blank">HEI</a>). We used pooled RNA samples, usually two independent pools--one male, one female pool--for most lines of mice. This data set was processed using the <a class="normalsize" href="http://rmaexpress.bmbolstad.com/" target="_blank">RMA</a> protocol. A total of 2223 probes sets are associated with LRS values greater than 46 (LOD &gt;10).</p>

<p>Users of these mouse eye data may also find the following complementary resources extremely useful:</p>

<ol>
	<li><a class="normalsize" href="http://neibank.nei.nih.gov/index.shtml" target="_blank">NEIBank</a> collection of ESTs and SAGE data.</li>
	<li><a class="normalsize" href="http://www.sph.uth.tmc.edu/Retnet/" target="_blank">RetNet</a>: the Retinal Information Network--tables of genes and loci causing inherited retinal diseases</li>
	<li><a class="normalsize" href="http://cepko.med.harvard.edu/" target="_blank">Mouse Retina SAGE Library</a> from the Cepko laboratory. This site provides extensive developmental data from as early as embryonic day E12.5.</li>
	<li><a class="normalsize" href="http://dro.hs.columbia.edu/" target="_blank">Digital reference of ophthalmology </a> from Columbia provides high quality photographs of human ocular diseases, case studies, and short explanations. This reference does not have a molecular focus.</li>
	<li><a class="normalsize" href="http://www.scripps.edu/cb/friedlander/gene_expression/search.html" target="_blank">Mouse Retinal Developmental Gene Expression</a> data sets from the Friedlander laboratory. This site provides extensive developmental data using the Affymetrix U74 v 2 array (predecessor of the M430).</li>
	<li><a class="normalsize" href="http://microarray-pubs.stanford.edu/eyecompartments/" target="_blank">Data sets on differential gene expression in anatomical compartments of the human eye</a> from Pat Brown&#39;s lab. View expression signatures for different ocular tissues using the <strong>geneXplorer 2.0</strong>.</li>
</ol>
