<p>Almost all animals are young adults between 60 and 100 days of age (Table 1, minimum age is 60 and maximum age is 118 days). We measured expression in conventional inbred strains, BXD recombinant inbred (RI) strains, and reciprocal F1s between C57BL/6J and DBA/2J.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>BXD strains: The first 32 of these strains are from the Taylor series of BXD strains generated at the Jackson Laboratory by Benjamin A. Taylor. BXD1 through BXD32 were started in the late 1970s, whereas BXD33 through 42 were started in the 1990s. BXD43 and higher were bred by Lu Lu, Jeremy Peirce, Lee M. Silver, and Robert W. Williams starting in 1997 using B6D2 generation 10 advanced intercross progeny. This modified breeding protocol doubles the number of recombinations per BXD strain and improves mapping resolution (Peirce et al. 2004). All of the Taylor series of BXD strains and many of the new BXD strains are available from the Jackson Laboratory. Several strains were specifically excluded from the dataset. For the BXD43 and higher, the DBA/2J parent carried both the Tyrp-1 mutation and the Gpnmb mutation and these two mutations produce pigment dispersion glaucoma. All of the mice carrying these two mutations were not included in the dataset: BXD53, BXD55, BXD62, BXD66, BXD68, BXD74, BXD77, BXD81, BXD88, BXD89, BXD95 and BXD98. In addition BXD 24 was omitted, since it developed a spontaneous mutation, rd16 (Cep290) which resulted in retinal degeneration and was renamed BXD24b/TyJ (ref). Several additional strains were excluded due to abnormally high Gfap levels observed in our Full HEI Retina (April 2010) dataset, these include: BXD32, BXD49, BXD70, BXD83 and BXD89.</p>
