<p>We use a set of BXD recombinant inbred strains and standard inbred strains. The BXD lines are derived crossed between C57BL/6J (B6 or B) and DBA/2J (D2 or D). Both B and D parental strains have been almost fully sequenced (8x coverage for B6 by a public consortium and approximately 1.5x coverage for D by <a class="fs14" href="http://www.celeradiscoverysystem.com/index.cfm" target="_blank">Celera Discovery Systems</a>) and data for 1.75 millioin B vs D SNPs are incorporated into WebQTL&#39;s genetic maps for the BXDs. BXD2 through BXD32 were produced by Benjamin A. Taylor starting in the late 1970s. BXD33 through 42 were also produced by Taylor, but they were generated in the 1990s. These strains are all available from The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine. BXD43 through BXD99 were produced by Lu Lu, Jeremy Peirce, Lee M. Silver, and Robert W. Williams in the late 1990s and early 2000s using advanced intercross progeny (Peirce et al. <a class="fs14" href="http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2156/5/7" target="_blank">2004</a>).</p>

<p>Most BXD animals were generated in-house at the University of Tennessee Health Science Center by Lu Lu and Robert Williams using stock obtained from The Jackson Laboratory between 1999 and 2004. All BXD strains with numbers above 42 are new advanced intecross type BXDs (Peirce et al. <a class="fs14" href="http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2156/5/7" target="_blank">2004</a>) that are current available from UTHSC. Additional cases were provided by Glenn Rosen, John Mountz, and Hui-Chen Hsu. These cases were bred either at The Jackson Laboratory (GR) or at the University of Alabama (JM and HCH).</p>
