This BXD data set provides estimates of ethanol-responsive mRNA expression in the prefrontal cortex across 27 BXD recombinant inbred strains and their B6 and D2 progenitor strains. All samples are from a total of 468 adult male animals obtained from Jackson Laboratory and raised in a standard laboratory environment. An average of 8 males per strain was used to measure the anxiety-like behavior in response to restraint and treatment with either saline or 1.8g/kg ethanol in the light-dark transition model of anxiety. Four hours after treatment, animals were rapidly sacrificed by cervical dislocation, brains were removed, cooled and microdissected as previously described (Kerns et al., J. Neurosci. 25:2255, 2005).

All RNA isolation and subsequent probe generation and hybridization to microarrays were completed using a supervised randomization procedure to minimize batch effects. Affymetrix M430 type 2.0 microarrays were used for hybridization using standard procedures. Expression analysis was conducted by estimating the relative abundance of over 45,000 transcripts in the prefrontal cortex in response to ethanol or saline and transforming these data using the S-score method to compare ethanol vs. saline expression from pairs of arrays for each strain (Kerns et al., Methods 31:274, 2003). The S-score is a method developed for Affymetrix oligonucleotide arrays that is particularly suited to comparing expression on 2 or a small number of chips (Zhang et al., 2002). The S-score output for each probeset is not an indication of expression magnitude but rather, the change in expression between compared arrays. The S-score is essentially a z-score centered around zero with positive S-scores reflecting increased gene expression with ethanol and negative scores reflecting ethanol-induced decreases in expression. Larger magnitude S-scores show more significant changes in expression and are generally correlated with the "fold-change".

Zhang, L., et al., 2002. A new algorithm for analysis of oligonucleotide arrays: application to expression profiling in mouse brain regions. J Mol Biol. 317, 225-35.