<p>All animals were obtained at 8-9 weeks of age from the Jackson Laboratory (Bar Harbor, ME) and were treated, behaviorally tested and brains dissected by Alex Putman and colleagues at VCU. Following an hour acclimation period to the behavioral room, animals were restrained for 15 minutes, immediately injected (I.P.) with either saline (0.9%) or 1.8g/kg ethanol, and 5 minutes later placed in the light-dark box for a 10-minute test session. All behavioral testing occurred between 10 AM and 1 PM during the light phase over a 12 month period beginning August 2005. Four hours after treatment, animals were rapidly sacrificed by cervical dislocation, brains were removed, cooled and microdissected. Prefrontal cortex tissue was isolated by microdissection using a wedge-shaped slice taken from a 4 mm thick brain slice extending rostrally from the optic chiasm. The wedge was centered on the inter-hemispheric fissure and extending 2 mm laterally on each side and ventrally to just above the corpus callosum. This tissue and all other brain regions were dissected in less than 5 minutes per mouse and were immediately frozen in liquid nitrogen followed by storage at -80 oC prior to RNA isolation. A pool of dissected tissue from 3 mice of the same strain was used to generate RNA samples. All RNA samples were extracted at VCU by Alex Putman during October 2006 and the order of RNA isolation was randomized across all strains and treatment groups (since saline treated animals were processed concurrently).</p>

<p><a href="http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE28515" target="_blank">GEO Accession: GSE28515</a></p>
