<p>Samples were processed by Lorne Rose and colleagues in the Illumina Core at UTHSC between July and August 2010. In brief, RNA purity was evaluated using the 260/280 nm absorbance ratio, and values had to be greater than 1.8 to pass our quality control (QC). The majority of samples had values between 1.9 and 2.1. RNA integrity was assessed using the Agilent Bioanalyzer 2100. The standard Eberwine T7 polymerase method was used to catalyze the synthesis of cDNA template from polyA-tailed RNA using the Ambion/Illumina (http://www.ambion.com/catalog/CatNum.php?AMIL1791) TotalPrep RNA amplication kit (Cat#IL1791). The biotin labeled cRNA was then evaluated using both the 260/280 ratio (values of 2.0-2.3 are acceptable) using a NanoDrop ND-1000 (http://www.nanodrop.com/nd-1000-overview.html). Those samples that passed QC steps (1-3% failed and new RNA samples had to be acquired and processed) were immediately used on Mouse-6 v 1.1 slide. The slides were hybridized and washed following standard Illumina protocols.</p>

<p>This data set consists arrays processed in 8 groups over a 2 month period (from July-August 2010). All groups consisted of 24 samples. All arrays in this data set were processed using a single protocol by a single operator. Processing was supervised directly by Lorne Rose. All samples were scanned on a single Illumina Beadstation housed in the Hamilton Eye Institute between Month Day and Month Day, Year. Details on sample assignment to slides and batches is provide in the table below.</p>
