<p>The February 2008 High Q Foundation Neocortex data set provides estimates of mRNA expression in the cerebral cortex of 73 lines of mice, including 52 BXD strains, 20 standard inbred strains, and B6D2F1 isogenic hybrids. All samples are from normal adult control animals raised in a standard laboratory environment. All data were generated with funds provided by the High Q Foundation using the Illumina Mouse 6.1 bead array (the second version of the Illumina Mouse-6 platform).</p>

<p>While this February data release is still a provisional, we are not aware of any specific errors.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>A total of 129 pooled neocortex samples were processed using approximately XX <a class="fs14" href="http://www.illumina.com/gex-mouse/" target="_empty">Illumina Sentrix Mouse-6.1 oligomer microarray</a> BeadArray slides. XX Mouse-6.1 slides and a total of <strong>128</strong> samples passed stringent quality control and error checking. This data set is a companion to the High Q Foundation Striatum data set and was processed using very closely matched methods and most of the same samples. This is our third large data set generated using the Illumina platform. This particular data set was processed using the Illumina &quot;Rank Invariant&quot; protocol. Values were log2 transformed and the current data range from XXX (very low or no expression) to XXXX (extremely high).</p>

<p>As a measure of data quality we often count the number of probes that are associated with LOD scores of greater than 10 (LRS &gt; 46). In this Neocortex Illumina (Feb 08) RankInv data set, 1564 probes have LRS values &gt;46 (LOD &gt;10).</p>

<p>Users of these mouse neocortex data may also find the following complementary resources and papers useful:</p>

<ol>
	<li><a class="fs14" href="http://www.jneurosci.org/cgi/content/full/26/39/9956" target="_blank">Rossner and colleagues, 2006</a>: a paper on the transcriptome of identified subtypes of neurons in the mouse neocortex.</li>
	<li><a class="fs14" href="http://rosenlab.net/Movie/P14.mov" target="_blank">A movie of the dissection of the brain by Dr. Glenn Rosen.</a></li>
</ol>
